Yeah, that way I don't have to take notes and I can just... And then you might want to look at some of them.
Oh, I'd love to.
And I'm just going to leave the table shopping for Christmas presents.
Up to that point, there weren't very many Christmas presents.
And if people were giving people Christmas presents, it was more likely to be a side of bacon or some molasses for cooking.
And so this got people into the habit of shopping for Christmas, got men into the habit anyway.
So interesting.
And it got women to want and expect presents.
Like that one.
Just as the night before Christmas got children to expect and want their presents.
And incidentally, the first gift book was 1823, and that I had before Christmas, which was published in 1823.
Really?
Well, then I'll do a little boasting.
These are the first Christmas cards.
Okay.
Which are fabulous out there in the catalog.
Well, since the catalog, I've got... Since the catalog.
Now, I think I am modestly, I'm virtually certain.
This is the most extensive collection in the world, the first Christmas card.
Really?
I think this is the card that's in the catalog.
That's the card that's in the catalog.
Oh, that's wonderful.
And that's in very nice condition.
Yeah, that was the one we looked at in that catalog.
It's beautiful.
Just briefly, what was the FDR book that had the ownership signature, without getting up again?
Oh, that was the gift of the book.
They were 1842 and 43, and one of them is Eleonora.
by Poe, and the other is, uh, is the, uh, uh, the, uh, the famous one, the, uh, Pit in the Pendulum.
Now, since, since then, this was, this was the one that's in the catalog.
Since then, I got this one.
And this is signed by J.C.
Horsley.
And he was the designer, he was the artist who approved the first Christmas card.
And I got this from Justin.
And this is of particular interest because there was always considerable
I doubt as to when the first Christmas card actually was created.
For many, many years up until the 1950s, it was thought that probably the first Christmas card was 1846.
And the reason was that in his memoirs, Henry Cole, who was the guy who commissioned the first card,
He referred to 1846 as being the date.
But he wrote those memoirs 30 or 40 years later, and his memory was at 4.
He didn't write them 40 years later because he was dead 40 years later.
30 years later.
And his memory was at 4.
And three cards came in a view, were found, turned up.
of which this is one, that were dated, and this one is dated 1843.
Now, does the person who presented it be signed in the manner that we do today, or have they been signed by the person who presents it?
Well, you see at the top it says, to, and then the person who sends the card writes out who it's to, and there's a from down here, and this was from J.C.
Horsley.
Christmas, 1843.
So that established that 1843 was the date.
And were these sent by post, do you think?
Yeah, they were sent by post.
In fact, preceding them, there was something called...
A Christmas envelope.
I'm not sure where it is.
Well, what these are, this is a proof, printer's proof, of the first car.
There are only 21 or possibly 22 of the Christmas cards, of the first cards in existence today.
And there are about four or five proofs in existence.
And the first card, Betsy Shirley has one.
And the Morgan Library has one.
And the New York Historical Society has one.
And the Victoria and Albert Museum has one.
The British Museum has one.
Anyway, it's known where they all are.
There was a fellow in Canada who made a census of them.
Of the 21 now, I've got three of them.
You had three of them?
Oh my goodness.
Anyway, this is a proof of the first card.
And this is given, this was given as a souvenir by Henry Cole in 1865 to Lady Dorothy Neville.
She had signed in pencil.
And over here,
This is... In 1865, Henry Cole had not yet been knighted.
But over here, this is a facsimile of the first card.
And this was printed in 1881.
And because by that time, Christmas cards were so popular that...
For nostalgia's sake, they reprinted the first card, but you can see how they, and by this, the first card was hand-colored.
These are, these are, these are not hand-colored.
That's magnificent.
That's incredible.
That's after 1840.
There's a difference between collecting and acquiring.
Well, collecting implies involves a focus, and I think it's the most focused collection back I've ever seen.
I was mentioning the first—well, here's an even better—
This is another proof.
That's beautiful.
That's a better condition, proof.
So this is all hand colored over here?
Is that right?
That's hand colored.
And that's the third color.
So this would have been printed like this, and then an artist would have painted in the details, right?
That's right.
And isn't it a fox or anything?
What kind of condition was the paper?
You can see the strokes when I painted it.
that you can tell the difference between that one and the other one.
Yeah, you can.
It looks like a little larger.
Are they the same size?
Is that the same size?
Does that look a little bit larger?
Yeah, it's the same size.
It's all in the same block, I know.
Beautiful.
That's extraordinary that exists, isn't it?
The first Christmas card.
In such beautiful conditions.
Well, these things have been produced since then, that's the first.
As fresh as it was produced, it's beautiful.
About two and a quarter billion are printed every year in the United States.
About three million every year, that's the first.
This is, I mentioned, a Christmas envelope.
That's a Christmas envelope.
It was all printed like that?
This was printed in 1840.
Where would you address it, right there?
Right there.
And that's 1840.
That was three years before the first crystal card.
It was printed by the same man who printed the first card.
And it looks like a personal message in there from someone.
Well, this is a letter.
You love this, don't you?
I can tell.
I can tell in the preface that you wrote to the catalog that you were really looking for a collectible that made you feel good.
I think.
And I can see here, as you're sharing this with us, how special it is too.
Who doesn't like Christmas?
Yeah.
But the gift books are interesting.
I just didn't know how that originated, and how it influenced gift exchange.
I never wonder about the same one.
No, you've seen all three of the first course, and you've seen two proofs.
And this is just another facsimile.
This is this facsimile, by this time, this was in 1881, and Henry Cole died in 1882, so this is the first, this is the last card, the last Christmas card he ever sent from Sir Henry Cole to Mr. and Mrs. G. Wallace.
And Wallace was the first head of the Victoria and Albert Museum.
Can you describe what the content—what is the picture showing us?
Yeah, well, it's a family toasting the recipient with glasses of wine.
And in the 1840s, when this was first done, it was criticized
on the basis that it would encourage drunkenness.
Oh, boy.
And on the left-hand side is a panel representing Christmas charity, which is feeding the poor, and the right-hand side is clothing the poor.
Which are Christmas virtues, to be sure.
Yeah.
So that's rather unusual.
I mean, I know there is nothing like that anyways.
When you started collecting, did you say, well, it's going to be a book collection, it's going to be an ephemera collection, it's going to be an art collection, or was it going to be a collection with the theme of Christmas and... No, when I started collecting, I started just getting books.
Fun books.
They tended to be...
I'll show you one of the early ones.
It's an interesting book.
In fact, you can pull this right out.
Oh, we've got to look at this out here.
Oh, my God.
There's more books.
There you go.
So which way did the sun rise from, by the way?
The sun rises over there.
That's the east.
OK.
What a tree.
Wow.
This is a bunch of very well-known writers.
started publishing.
You said this is one of the first things you acquired, right?
Yeah.
This is the owl, and there's the winter owl.
And these are all the people who were involved in it.
I can't hear their signatures.
William H. Davis, William Harding Davis, no.
Sassoon, Mike Sirbaugh.
Sure.
John Masefield.
Galsworthy.
I see Galsworthy.
William Harding Davis, perhaps?
Robbitts.
That's pretty nice.
That's the kind of thing I was collecting.
But I was just doing hit or miss.
You can't just collect books.
You say just doing hit or miss.
Do you mean, was there a focus?
Well, actually, I was collecting, I tended to collect a lot of children's books.
Mother Goose and that kind of stuff.
But you can't just collect, well you can just collect children.
But I was higgledy-piggledy, I was all over the place.
Incidentally, Ellie has a collection of books.
These are all on women.
I like that collection.
Wonderful.
that most of us saw.
Elizabeth Cady Stanton, of course, is very important.
That's a beautiful collection.
The Life and Life of Susan Anthony.
Elizabeth Cady Stanton.
The Scarlet Letter.
Why do I ask a digression?
Well, digressions are good.
Husbands and wives, they collect ones.
Good night.
decided, well, I've got to concentrate on something.
What shall I concentrate on?
And I asked myself, what do I like most in all the world?
And I decided that Christmas was what I like most in all the world.
They're a little childish, but there you are.
I think it's fabulous, fabulous.
I'll use that here, yes.
Well then, by this time, now we're getting up around late 40s and 50s, by this time the fad was, the gift book fad was dying out.
And so then, as a result of Dickens' Christmas books, everybody started writing books for Christmas.
And this was a new
They were written for Christmas, and they were called holiday books.
And at that point, maybe it would be good to drop down to Dickens.
These are, well of course, virtually every book in here, the first edition.
The first set of the five Dickens Christmas books, I just happened to run across about a month ago.
I ran across the invoice for these five books.
They were six pounds.
It cost you six pounds?
Yes, that's what they cost, six pounds.
Originally.
In 1952.
That was originally what he paid.
And today they would be, well, give or take, ten thousand pounds.
You paid six pounds for those.
Well, that's pretty sagacious, isn't it?
I mean, I don't know how people can afford to collect things nowadays.
Books, they're so expensive.
If you're going to be a high-spot collector, it's very expensive.
The Christmas Carol is a very interesting book.
You have multiple copies.
Maybe you can explain that.
Oh, I will.
Don't worry.
The question is, what is the real first edition, the first issue, first edition?
Is it in parts?
Yes, well, it came out, it's in sections, but it was published all once.
It was.
Oh, yeah.
I know that.
And conventional wisdom holds today that the Green End Papers in
and the red and blue title page, and stave Roman numeral one rather than O-N-E, and uncorrected text, and so on.
But that is the first issue of the first edition.
And if that is so, then this is a superb
a copy of that book.
Now this is the Green End Papers.
We have a book plate here, too.
There's Stave Eyes.
And here is Mr. and Mrs. Fezziwig, drawn by John Leach.
There are four plates in here, four color plates.
That's wonderful.
And so that would be considered today the first, the first.
The first appearance, yeah.
I really got started off on a long foot here.
I should have given you a bit of background.
Dickens wanted this book to be perfect.
And he had a separate, I can't remember what's in the catalog and what's not in the catalog.
But he had a new style of, a new deal that he settled off with his publisher.
And the deal was that he would
He would pay all the expenses of having it done, but he would get all the profits, and the Chapman and Hall publishers would get a fixed commission on the number of copies sold.
Well, the result of that was a disaster, which we'll predict as we'll come to a little bit later.
But in trying to come out with a perfect book that he could still sell for very inexpensively, for five shillings, he experimented all over the place.
Dickens did personally, right?
Yeah.
And the first thing he wanted to do, he wanted to have green endpapers, and he wanted to have
a green and red title page.
And I'll show you that.
Boy, how can you do that inexpensively?
And we also want to have four pictures in hand-colored.
This was before color printing came off.
And since he started writing this the first week in October,
And the first books were delivered to him on December 17.
And the first printing consisted of 6,000 copies.
So there were four plates that had to be hand-colored.
That meant hand-coloring 24,000 plates.
Well, you can see a problem that posed.
Well, this is what is commonly known
as the trial issue.
And here's the yellow—I mean, green endpapers.
And if you look closely, you'll see that this—see, this is— That's red and green.
You said I had to go through the press twice.
The green tended to rub off.
You see the way it's rubbing off?
Yes, I do.
I see it looks warm.
And the green of the type was a little too drab.
So he decided not to do it in red and green.
So this is very rare then.
This is quite rare.
And so he decided not to do it with the green endpapers, but with the yellow endpapers.
That was a trial one.
How many of those were produced, Jacques, did you say was the trial?
Well, nobody really knows.
I'll explain it to you in a second.
Among the experiments he tried, he tried pink endpapers.
That's incredible.
I had no idea.
The pink endpapers are very rare.
I think the green and the red are traditionally Christmas colors.
He picked the green and red because they were nice Christmassy colors.
I don't know how involved he was in the... This is a paratextual statement.
Involved in the production.
I didn't realize that Dickens is currently saying that he took such a direct hand in the production.
Oh, he did.
He did.
On page 17, you see that signature C down at the bottom?
Oh, yes, right there.
Yeah.
Oh, yes, I do.
See, that's a perfect C. Now, as the print run ran along, the C became broken.
And the type.
And the type is broken C. So that's a very early one.
So this is an early one.
But we know that's early anyway, because that's pink endpapers, which he didn't use.
I'm going to have to read up on this.
This is a fabulous story.
Did Dickens take this kind of care with all of his books, or was it The Christmas Carol, you think, in particular?
Oh, it was The Christmas Carol in particular, because he learned his lesson, because none of the other Christmas books have any color plates in them.
Okay.
So they never get it again.
Is it too expensive or too— And what year was this when I asked?
1843.
Well, he's still a pretty young man then, isn't he, really?
Probably in his thirties.
1831.
Now this—this is unique.
That's the word every collector likes to hear.
Look at that.
Unique.
particularly if they use the word correctly.
That'd be signed, right?
It's got the green.
Probably no red.
No red in the title page.
Is it green?
It looks blue.
It's blue.
Is it blue?
The title has been left out.
Dickens' title, Dickens' name, A Christmas Carol is Left Out by Charles Dickens.
Sure.
London has all been left out, because it missed the second pass to the press.
So that, as far as we know, that's unique.
That just slipped through.
We could like it very early in the run, too.
Well, let's... How's the C on the page 17?
I forgot.
Let's have a look at the C. I'm paying attention to that.
It's collation, that's the first thing we need to see, too.
That's great.
It's nice and clean.
It's very clean.
You can see the type.
What a book!
It's even cleaner than the other seat.
That's very early to the press.
You can see the type coming through the pages.
They're so clean.
That's fabulous.
That's really unbelievable.
That's been shown at the Morgan Library.
That was beautiful.
Do you want to read that?
It is a blue color.
You were right.
And so this is the Morgan Library description.
Isn't that wonderful?
Or a foul sheet, as it says.
That could also be what they call foul sheets.
They were printed, and they weren't supposed to go into the bound books, but they do.
Yep, that's fine.
These are a couple of Dickens letters.
Oh, is it one of them?
Pretty interesting.
So the first Christmas card and the carol was printed in the same year, 1843?
Yeah, Connie raises an interesting question, Jack.
The first Christmas card is 1843, and also Christmas Carol is 1843 in the same year.
So there seems to have been a very cultural interest in Christmas that goes beyond.
I mean, something must have been happening there.
This is a letter from him on the 24th of October, in which he says, uh, pray to me a favor of telling the committee of literary and scientific institutions that I am much satisfied by their kind remembrance,
And that it is not a little matter which should prevent me from accepting their invitation for the 24th.
I regret to add, however, that urgent engagement is required.
The not little matter was he was riding the Christmas cow.
He didn't have the time.
And I recognize his handwritten food.
It's got very legibles.
That's wonderful.
So your collecting of Dickens basically is restricted to the Christmas titles, is that right?
Yeah.
Now... I've been waiting for these.
Oh, well, this is the... No, I'm not.
I love this...
Now this is recognizably the second issue.
You see, this is stave one.
They changed the one.
As opposed to stave I. Oh, sure.
It's still 1843.
It's still hand-coloring the plates?
Oh, yeah.
Wow.
This is still the original 6,000 copies.
He kept the same cloth, didn't he, though, the brown cloth with the gold stamp?
Only for the Christmas Carol.
All the other Christmas books are different.
Now I think we're going to see something special.
I think those are pretty extraordinary.
I want to show you.
Now these are the other Christmas books as well, right?
Yeah.
Those are stupid.
Now, here's the yellow endpapers.
But here you'll see a broken sea.
The sea is broken.
Now, here's the question.
The first ten copies
of A Christmas Carol were delivered to Dickens on December 17th.
He immediately inscribed all ten copies to friends and dated them December 17th.
I've seen seven of
They all have yellow endpapers, and they all have a perfect C. And I think if you were to ask Dickens what the first issue, first edition, the truth first was,
He would point to those ten copies and say, well, these, of course.
I think so.
Makes sense.
And I have been trying.
I've got nine copies of the first edition.
But I've been trying to get copies with the yellow endpapers with the perfect C, and I can't find one.
You haven't found one.
And I don't think it would be terribly expensive, because these days,
Everybody says the Green End Papers.
Is there anything inscribed by Dickens prior to December the 17th, or is that the earliest?
No.
Those are the ones for a presentation.
Incidentally, just a little side.
Kind of fun.
This is the Encyclopedia of Britannia.
Look at the print.
Look at the nice paper they used.
You don't see any yellowing at all crying because it's real paper.
There's no pulp.
It's on pulp.
1843, November 25th.
So that must be an announcement in there?
I'll bet.
That's quite excellent condition of that.
It's fabulous.
Do you want to look your eyes better than mine?
I'm sure it's... I'm sure it's here now.
I'm sure.
The whole point of this is it's so hard to find.
It's such a modest announcement of one of the most famous books of all time.
And it's in the Britannia, November 25th, 1843.
on page 751 751 jock they remember a fifth one down from the top one two three four five and it says new christmas book by mr dickens in december will be published in small 8vo with four colored with four colored in december will be published i'm missing it etchings and woodcuts by leach
A Christmas Carol in Prose being A Ghost Story of Christmas by Charles Dickens, priced five shillings, Chapman and all, 186 grand.
Now this, you compare that with the hype that goes around a bestseller or a non-bestseller today.
It is a point where it's amazing, isn't it?
Inside.
It's inside, too.
Oh, that's wonderful.
Christian, you have to remember, I believe in Santa Claus.
Here, hold this.
I want to write that down.
And you have a piece of cardboard in there, too.
Jonathan, we know you have to go out tonight, so I want to just be alert, so I'm good to be imposing on your hospitality.
Oh, well, we're fine now.
No, you won't.
It is fabulous, isn't it, Clive?
It's wonderful.
And who is it?
How could it survive so wide?
Well, because it's before the age of Pope.
Pope comes in at the Civil War.
That's right.
So this is beautiful paper.
That's linen paper, probably, rag paper.
Well, not all these or all the other.
That's not much of a sense.
Tell them about this beautiful condition.
Just show you.
I don't know if you need this one.
Beautiful.
Did you have that box made?
No, I didn't.
And that's the five.
It's almost Morocco, isn't it?
I mean, Morocco-colored.
Except for the Christmas carol.
Did he kind of lose his fire when it came to the other ones, or was the Christmas carol really special to him?
Well, actually all the other ones sold better than the carol did.
But, but they, they're not much.
They do.
They're pristine condition.
Yeah, they're beautiful.
How important is condition to you, Chuck?
Oh, well, you try and get the best you can.
I really got those just because they're really just good.
I want to write that down.
Well, onwards.
Well, then everybody started writing a holiday book.
That opened the floodgates, didn't it?
That opened the floodgates.
I don't know.
He did it.
I never realized that.
Here's one that's just a slavish copy.
Were there any piracies?
Oh, yeah.
As they were, say, with Doyle, you know?
Of course, he was the victim of rape piracy.
Oh, I got it.
I bet you have some, yeah.
But here's a book, The Faces of the Fire.
You can see that's just a slavish copy.
It's the same red ribbed cloth, same size, same everything as the Dickens books.
What do you mean by slavish?
I mean, it was... Meant to?
Meant to be replicative, in other words, right?
I mean, it was just... A knockoff.
It was a knockoff.
It's exactly the same.
Except for the writing.
Now, you talk about the...
piracy.
Within two months of the publication of The Christmas Carol, there were productions of it on the London stages.
Wow.
Within two months.
These are the playbills.
Of two of them.
And these are the
These are Leach's original sketches of the drawings that went into the Cricket on the Hall.
Just to briefly interrupt, Jack, do you mind if I take a couple of pictures of you?
Not at all.
Okay, thanks.
Please keep talking.
The ball on Christmas Eve and Fezzy's warehouse thing, that's incredible.
Well, these were pirated versions.
They were pirated versions.
And they had, actually, they had very little to do with the book itself.
They were, in fact, one of them was a musical.
Oh, no.
Boy.
They really didn't have anything to do with the book.
But they were very successful, and he didn't make a penny out of them.
And then it was also
published in various countries.
These are the first editions.
This is the first edition printed in the United States in 1844.
And here you'll see that for some reason, instead of having Mr. and Mrs. Fezziwig on the front, he used Marley's ghost.
But this was all pirated.
He didn't get a nickel out of these.
This was the gift book, printed as a Christmas cow, a Christmas cow present for a gift book.
And there I did use the fuzzy wigs.
The one exception was in Germany, where
I'm going into too much detail here.
Tauschnitz had gotten permission in England to print English copies in Germany, in Leipzig.
And he printed this.
This may have actually come out.
Two or three days before the Christmas Carol came out in England.
Is that right?
They beat him?
Boy, he's a beautiful boy.
Nicely done.
But he was subject to piracy all over the place.
Would you say Dickens is the heart of the collection?
Or is it one of these synergistic collections where everything is?
I wouldn't say so.
Maybe, but... When you think of what the facts are in terms of, it's fabulous.
And just, would you estimate the number of books that you have here?
Well, I have about 3,500.
3,500?
Most of the children's books out there are back in boxes.
How many children's books?
I don't know.
The only children's books I have out here.
a piece of children's books.
And they're all, mostly they're all very old.
Now if you could explain why, how does little women rate inclusion in the collection?
There must be, I don't remember, there must be a great Christmas scene in there, that would be my guess.
I didn't realize the book was that big.
I've never seen a first Little Women for some reason.
All the books I've seen could be the first one.
He's smiling.
Playing Pilgrim?
Christmas.
Playing Pilgrim.
The first word.
The first word is, Christmas won't be Christmas without any presents grumbled, Joe, lying on the rug.
What a silly question for me to ask.
I don't know your little women, Nick.
My little Nicole.
I've been trying to get that little woman for years.
Is that a recent acquisition?
Yeah, I got it in the last few hours.
Well, you're not as long as that at all, are you?
Do these go on the outside or the inside?
On the inside?
Well, here's a question for you, John.
Since the Royal Year Exhibition, which was three years ago, you've probably made some major additions since then.
Oh, I have.
So that I don't miss it.
Well, for instance, one of them is that signed First Christmas Card, signed by...
That was quite a wonderful exhibition.
Well, on the—one second—on the strength of the exhibition, we've written up very nicely in the New York Times.
And on the effect of that, Paul Gottlieb, who was the head of the public's uniform, and the system and asked me to write a book, if I'd like to write a book by Christmas.
Oh, there it is.
Is that the one that's going to be published by Adrian?
That's the one that's... Oh, isn't it a beautiful cover?
That's a rufflepuff cover.
Oh, wow.
Have you ever had a story like in Smithsonian about your collection or anything like that?
Is that something that we're interested to, you think?
Oh, look at the back.
What's the puffier on this?
Yeah, the author of this.
Isn't that wonderful?
That's a great picture.
Should I leave the cover with him?
Maybe you can go that.
That's beautiful.
That's a nice picture.
That's wonderful.
Oh, you must be very proud of that.
That's Nast.
Is that Nast?
That's beautiful.
Did Nast do the coloration on that?
Yeah.
Oh yes, they're round, it's freezing.
This is like Christmas.
This is one of the collections, by the way.
This is Eisenhower.
This is Dewey.
Oh, my goodness.
I didn't get to see those.
I was just looking at that.
This is Jack Elliott with appreciation and best wishes, Ronald Raymond.
Pretty impressive.
There's Elliott made with the Queen of England.
Oh, my God.
Oh, look at that.
Isn't that lovely?
December 16th, 1981 in the New York Times.
December 16th, 1981.
Chuck, this is a great photograph.
Could you tell us a little bit about this picture here?
Oh, we got married in London.
Isn't that the wedding day?
That's our wedding day.
Oh, my goodness, it's beautiful.
We got married in 1986.
Oh, that's a beautiful portrait.
We got married in this chapel.
St.
Margaret, in Westminster.
Margaret, the church right next to Westminster Abbey.
Yeah, magnificent.
I'll go in there, huh?
Very nice.
What is this book?
Okay, look at this.
Look at the treasure.
Isn't that wonderful?
Just go back to that title page again.
I'll get a photograph of it.
Isn't that beautiful?
Oh, look at that.
Do you know this book?
No, I don't.
It looks like a type written.
It is.
Now, could you tell us a little bit about what this book is?
Well, it is a description of it.
First folio.
Boy, he's already got the jacket.
Isn't that wonderful?
Inventing Christmas.
How our traditions came to be in the title.
actually it's probably how holiday transportation smart chris folio walter w schumach s-c-h-n-a-u-c-h christmas literature a bibliographical study with the trial here y-a-o of old father christmas
1936, three volumes bound by the Monastery, Hill, Binary, Chicago, blah, blah, done into a book decorated in that world.
It's 25th Day of Christmas.
One fun of 500 copies.
Trial of Old Father Christmas was published by Hill in 1937, an old edition of my copies by the Torch Press.
There are several pencil corrections in the text, the manuscript, and a typewriter with the illustrations and borders handwritten.
So this is the manuscript.
This is the type script.
Actually, Eric Holzenberg quoted my attention to it.
Eric is terrific, yeah.
Okay, back.
This is the Dutch Santa Claus.
Is that the Dutch Santa Claus?
Sinterklaas in Black Peter.
Isn't that interesting?
Look, here's the Christmas game of Dickens for old and young.
One of his admirers of all these little games.
Old Christmas by Washington.
That's very interesting, too.
That would even predate Dickens, wouldn't it?
Well, that came out just right at the same time.
Well,
We're always.
Everything is bad.
I just want to let you know that it's ten minutes to voyage.
I'm going to hold on the road.
Oh, boy.
We're lucky.
We're too hard.
Okay.
Give me a... When should I insist?
Oh, no, no, no, no.
Come on.
Here's all the night before Christmas.
Those are all the Naples.
Wow.
This is a copy of that cover.
Oh, that's the condition of that.
I love masks.
Even Betsy Shirley doesn't have masks.
She's such a nice lady.
We're interested in meeting her and her husband.
Carl.
Yeah, very nice.
That's magnificent.
Isn't that beautiful?
That's what the color's going to be.
And this is going to be up far?
It's being pretty right now.
Oh, boy.
That was a great idea that Gottlieb had.
You can't miss Gottlieb with the fellow that had a baby.
I know his name.
He set the exhibition.
Wonderful.
It's wonderful.
It'll be a keepsake of everything together.
It would be nice to have it all.
Murder for Christmas.
Now, on Santa Claus, these are the first printing of it.
First printing in books, first printing in magazines.
Here's a signed copy by Moore.
Here's the first illustrated edition.
And then all the different illustrators of it.
Have you tried a bibliography of this?
Have you tried to prepare a bibliography of the collection?
Well, I have it all in the arts.
Oh, you do?
Oh, good.
In fact, the stuff that's down in the study that we were just doing.
It's down there because I haven't cataloged it yet.
Well, how about the Nast?
Because he did Santa in numerous versions in the Harpers Weekly.
Do you get the Harpers Weeklys, too?
Well, this is one of them.
Yeah.
Oh, that's colored, too.
That's the 1865.
That's one of the very early things.
And that was where he was starting to hit his stride.
Yeah.
He still didn't have it, though.
He still didn't have the traditional Santa just yet with that one.
Here they are.
Look at these kind.
This is the Christmas drawings for the human race.
By Thomas Mann.
I've never seen that book.
Have you ever seen that book?
Good for you.
He did a picture, he's holding the picture real quiet.
He did a Christmas picture every year for Harper's Weekly until 1886.
And they were usually of Santa Claus.
We have one.
You have the original?
Unfortunately not.
We have him on the roof as he arrives in the sleigh.
We bring it out every Christmas.
No, that's not it.
Oh, that's not it.
Those are great, though, I think.
It could be that one.
Does that one come out?
Oh, they're wonderful.
They are.
Look at them.
I love nests.
I do, too.
We all do.
Oh, that's great.
That's the one you've got up there.
No, no.
There wasn't chrysantha every year.
See this?
The years were chrysantha.
That one, it was great.
That's the classic.
That one's a pipe.
Now, I wonder what to show you.
Could you tell us what this picture is on the wall over here?
This picture, this wonderful picture of Santa?
That's Al Hurstville.
Okay.
I like this.
Maybe it's a different color too.
It's wonderful though, isn't it?
Yeah, I love it.
There's a book called Christmas Tide.
It had some little homers in it.
We have that one.
Do you have that one?
I guess some of the engravings?
Christmas Tide.
You know what?
Well, I've got several Christmas Tides.
Oh, good.
Okay.
So you don't have to find it.
In fact, I don't think I might see it right there.
It's Christmas in a... Yeah, I know, sure.
I just saw it.
It's famous.
These are Christmas... This is Christmas poetry.
Carols.
Poetry.
Cards.
Brightstones.
I'm pretty much sure.
Etches by Boz over there, I see.
Boz was sticking to his personal illustrator.
This is the first printing of Milton's
That's the first picture of Milton.
That's famous.
That's a heavy duty book.
Now, my favorite Christmas book, Christmas thing, is, uh, Ballad of the Harp Weaver.
And, uh, again I've got a
I have unquestionably the most expensive collection.
Have you ever read that?
No, I haven't.
I'm going to read it.
Well, Elliot, I'll read it to Elliot every Christmas week.
It's your favorite story.
It's a poem.
It's the Ballad of...
There were fifteen copies of each of these little, and they were used for window displays.
They're all different colors.
Look at the red one, green, orange, yellow, blue.
They made very decorative.
When did you discover the poem, Jack?
Is it something that goes back to your youth?
Oh, no, rather years ago.
Well, I've got every part of it.
A little bit more.
One of them is .
at one point.
It's just one of them is a proof.
They're all signed by... Could you just read us a verse from one of the poems?
I'd love to hear you.
I know you probably don't have time for the whole poem, but I'd love to hear you.
I think it's a poem that you celebrate every Christmas with.
That would be quite a treat for us, I think.
We should keep it up.
It's quite a treat for us all the time.
Son, said my mother when I was knee-high, You've need of clothes to cover you, not a rag of rye.
There's nothing in the house to make a boy britches, Nor shears to cut a cloth with, nor thread to take stitches.
There's nothing in the house but a loaf end of rye,
And a harp with a woman's hand, nobody will buy.
And she began to cry.
And oh, but we were silly for half an hour or more with me, with my long legs.
Yes?
That is so sad.
Wait.
Thank you.
That's fabulous.
My brother was just calling up to say he was going to come down.
That's wonderful.
Congratulations.
That's a wonderful university.
And you're very dedicated to the books and the library there in Mississippi.
You gave a talk down there last year.
Do what?
I gave a talk at Duplex.
No, no, no.
I'm a collector and collecting and stuff there.
Friends.
In fact,
Bill Bice's wife is of it.
She was down there.
That's right.
Could you tell me why that poem in particular moves you so profoundly?
Honey, why does that... Oh, hold on, I'm sorry.
Oh, it's just a beautiful poem.
Yes.
Such a lovely Christmas poem.
Sacrifice.
Love of mother and son and all that.
My mother's frozen, trying to weave the clothes for her little boy.
You know what, Jack, I think that we're going to probably thank you very much for your hospitality.
No, I thank you very much.
A little refreshment.
We'd rather use every minute talking to you.
You know what I'd like, though?
I'd request... I wonder if you could inscribe.
We brought a copy of the catalog of your exhibitions, and we'd love for you to inscribe it for us.
I would love to do that.
We could stay here for Dave.
Sounds like a deal.
Where's the stuff?
Well, not all red years ago.
She's so pretty out here.
to his man he lived with all his life.
Memories.
And did he find Christmas holiday?
It's wonderful.
Lovely.
Terrific.
Just so lovely, just so peaceful.
Beautiful.
Sit and enjoy the food and the food.
Excellent.
Cross that key, too.
There's just an interesting spelling of Eliot, two L's and two T's.
Well, it's about every way.
There were two kinds of Eliot's, the Scottish Eliot's and the English Eliot's.
The English Eliot's which T.S.
Eliot was one.
They probably came over from France years ago, allio.
And they tend to be one L and one T.
Most usual, Elliot, Scottish, Scots came over from, uh, from, uh, Scandinavia, probably, Allen, Helen, something like that.
And they had two L's and one who was here, most usual.
You, sir, are you going to show us one other thing I can say?
Oh, cool.
Oh, is this what Chris is?
Oh, yeah.
Oh, that's wonderful.
No way.
Oh, boy.
Thank you so much.
I do so much.
Connie?
Would you like to use the bathroom?
No, we're fine.
I've left my pocketbook in the other room.
I want to ask you a question.
You have this book coming out.
Would you be interested in my proposing an article on your collection?
If somebody likes to fill the magazine, I can't guarantee the bill.
I'll publish it, but I think it would be wonderful for Christmas.
I'd love to go.
It would be very timely.
And it would be something that I would write.
We need to talk about your collection, and maybe I could call Abrams, maybe I could even get a set of the galleys of the book, but I'll propose it to Smithsonian if this is something you'd be interested in.
I absolutely would be interested in it.